Sift fraud detection integration (#1)
wso2-extensions/identity-fraud-detection-sift: docs/config.md

# Configuring Sift Fraud Detection

Sift uses machine learning and real-time data analysis to detect fraud. You can use Sift fraud detection with WSO2 Identity Server by following the steps below.

## Prerequisites
- You need to have a Sift account. If you do not have an account, create one by visiting the [Sift website](https://sift.com/).

## Install the Sift connector

**Step 1:** Extract the project artifacts
1. Clone the `identity-fraud-sift-int` repository.

> 2. Build the project by running the ```mvn clean install``` command in the root directory.

Reviewer: Since we are publishing github releases lets point to downloading from the git release or the connector store and omit the building part.

> Note : The latest project artifacts can also be downloaded from the Connector Store.

Reviewer 2: Let's add a link to the connector store here.

2. Copy the `org.wso2.carbon.identity.fraud.detection.sift-<version>-SNAPSHOT.jar` file to the `<IS_HOME>/repository/components/dropins` directory.
3. Restart the WSO2 Identity Server.

## Access the Console UI for the Sift connector

Once the connector is added successfully to WSO2 Identity Server, the Sift connector UI will be accessible from the Console, which enables developers to easily configure Sift for their organization by adding the API key.
To do so,
  1. In the WSO2 Console, go to `Login and Registration` section and click on `Sift Configuration`.

![Configuring Sift in WSO2 Console](../images/wso2console.png)

Add the `API key` you received from Sift.

## Sift Fraud Detection with Conditional Authentication

WSO2 Identity Server offers the following Sift-related functions that can be utilized in your conditional authentication scripts, enabling seamless integration of Sift into the user authentication process.

**`getSiftRiskScoreForLogin()`**

- This function returns the Sift risk score for a given login event, which is a value between 0 and 1. Higher the score, greater the risk.

> - In the case of an error, this function returns -1.

Reviewer: Lets mention some of the scenarios for returning -1

    - `LoginStatus` - Whether the user authentication was successful or not. Accepted values `LOGIN_SUCCESS`, `LOGIN_FAILED`.
    - `AdditionalParameters` - Any additional parameters can be sent to Sift.

**`publishLoginEventInfoToSift`**

- This function publishes the successful or failed login events to Sift. This informs Sift that the current login attempt was successful/failed.
    - `AuthenticationContext` - current authentication context.
    - `LoginStatus` - Whether the complete login flow was successful or not. Accepted values are `LOGIN_SUCCESS`, `LOGIN_FAILED`.
    - `AdditionalParameters` - Any additional parameters can be sent to Sift.

By default, Identity Server sends the user ID, session ID, IP address, and user agent to Sift.
The user ID is a mandatory field, while the other fields are optional. All four parameters can be overridden by including them as additional parameters in the functions.
To prevent Identity Server from sending the optional parameters to Sift, set empty strings to their values.

```javascript
var additionalParams = {
    "$ip": "",
    "$user_agent": "",
    "$session_id": ""
}
```

### Enable Logging

> 

Reviewer: Additional new line

> Including `"isLoggingEnabled": true` as an additional parameter in the functions activates logging for Sift fraud detection. When used with `getSiftRiskScoreForLogin`, it logs the risk score returned by Sift, and when applied to `publishLoginEventToSift`, it logs the payload sent to Sift.

Reviewer: In getSiftRiskScoreForLogin  its not only the scores that is logged right? We also the payload?

# Configuring Sift Fraud Detection

> To use the Sift fraud detection with WSO2 Identity Server, first you need to configure Sift connector with WSO2 Identity Server. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sift uses machine learning and real-time data analysis to detect fraud. You can use Sift fraud detection with WSO2 Identity Server by following the steps below. 
```

Reviewer 3: Add a brief description on Sift fraud detection (improve on the suggested if needed.)

> See the instructions given below on how to configure Sift fraud detection with WSO2 Identity Server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

> To use the connector you need to have a Sift account. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to have a Sift account. 
```

> If you do not have an account, you can create one by visiting the [Sift website](https://sift.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you do not have an account, create one by visiting the [Sift website](https://sift.com/).
```

> ## Installing the Sift connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Install the Sift connector
```

> **Step 1:** Extracting the project artifacts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 1: Extract the project artifacts**
```

1. Clone the `identity-fraud-sift-int` repository.

> 2. Build the project by running ```mvn clean install``` in the root directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Build the project by running the ```mvn clean install``` command in the root directory.
```

Note : The latest project artifacts can also be downloaded from the Connector Store.

> **Step 2:** Deploying the Sift connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 2: Deploy the Sift connector**
```

> 1. Navigate to the `identity-fraud-sift-int/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.fraud.detection.sift/target` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the cloned repository, navigate to the `components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.fraud.detection.sift/target` directory.
```

2. Copy the `org.wso2.carbon.identity.fraud.detection.sift-<version>-SNAPSHOT.jar` file to the `<IS_HOME>/repository/components/dropins` directory.
3. Restart the WSO2 Identity Server.

> ## The WSO2 console's UI for the Sift connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Access the Console UI for the Sift connector
```

> The WSO2 Console's UI for the Sift connector enables developers to easily configure Sift for their organization. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the connector is added successfully to WSO2 Identity Server, the Sift connector UI will be accessible from the Console, which enables developers to easily configure Sift for their organization by adding the API key.
```

> The UI offers a user-friendly and intuitive interface for defining Sift API key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Go to `Login and Registration` section in the WSO2 Console and click on `Sift ` to configure Sift.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do so,

1. On the WSO2 Identity Server Console, go to `Login and Registration` and click on `Sift`.
```

![Configuring Sift in WSO2 Console](../images/wso2console.png)

> ### API Key

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This refers to the API key you received from Sift.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add the `API Key` you received from Sift.

     Example:
     ```
     *****sd
     ```

3.  Click **Update** to save the changes.
```

> Example :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> *****sd

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Sift Fraud Detection with Conditional Authentication

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

WSO2 Identity Server offers the following Sift-related functions that can be utilized in your conditional authentication scripts, enabling seamless integration of Sift into the user authentication process.
```

> ### Conditional Authentication Functions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Following conditional authentication functions are provided for the Sift fraud detection integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

**`getSiftRiskScoreForLogin()`**

> - This function is utilized to obtained the Sift risk score for a given login event. This returns the risk score which resides between 0 and 1. Higher score means higher risk. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This function returns the Sift risk score for a given login event, which is a value between 0 and 1. Higher the score, greater the risk. 
```

> - In the case of an error, this function will return -1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In the case of an error, this function returns -1.
```

> - Following arguments are needed for the function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The functions takes the following arguments.
```

>     - Authentication context - current authentication context.

Reviewer 3: Add the actual parameter names instead.

    - Login status - Whether the user authentication was successful or not. Accepted values `LOGIN_SUCCESS`, `LOGIN_FAILED`.
    - Additional parameters - Any additional parameters can be sent to Sift.

**`publishLoginEventInfoToSift`**

> - This function is utilized to publish the successful or failed login events to Sift. This informs Sift that current login attempt was successful/failed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This function publishes the successful or failed login events to Sift. This informs Sift that the current login attempt was successful/failed.
```

>     - Authentication context - current authentication context.

Reviewer 3: Add the actual parameter names instead.

    - Login status - Whether the complete login flow was successful or not. Accepted values are `LOGIN_SUCCESS`, `LOGIN_FAILED`.
    - Additional parameters - Any additional parameters can be sent to Sift.

By default, Identity Server sends the user ID, session ID, IP address, and user agent to Sift.

> The user ID is a mandatory field, while the other fields are optional. All four parameters can be overridden by including them in the additional parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The user ID is a mandatory field, while the other fields are optional. All four parameters can be overridden by including them as additional parameters in the functions.
```

> To prevent Identity Server from sending optional parameters to Sift, set their values to an empty string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prevent Identity Server from sending the optional parameters to Sift, set empty strings to their values.
```

```javascript
var additionalParams = {
    "$ip": "",
    "$user_agent": "",
    "$session_id": ""
}
```

### Enable Logging

> Sending `"isLoggingEnabled": true` in the additional parameters will enable the logging for the Sift fraud detection flow. This will log the payload that will be sent to Sift as well as the risk score returned from the Sift.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Including `"isLoggingEnabled": true` as an additional parameter in the functions activates logging for Sift fraud detection. When used with `getSiftRiskScoreForLogin`, it logs the risk score returned by Sift, and when applied to `publishLoginEventToSift`, it logs the payload sent to Sift.
```

### Enable Sift fraud detection

To enable Sift fraud detection for your application:

1. On the Console, go to **Applciations**.

> 2. Go to the **Login Flow** tab of the application and enable conditional authentication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Go to the **Login Flow** tab of the application and enable **Conditional Authentication**.
```

> 3. Add an conditional authentication script and Click on **Update**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Add a conditional authentication script and Click **Update**.
```

> Example conditional authentication script which fails the authentication if the risk score is higher than 0.5.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example conditional authentication script is for a scenario where the authentication fails if the risk score exceeds 0.5.
```

## Install the Sift connector

> The latest project artifacts can also be downloaded from the Connector Store (https://store.wso2.com/connector/identity-fraud-detection-sift). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The latest project artifacts can be downloaded from the Connector Store (https://store.wso2.com/connector/identity-fraud-detection-sift). 
```

**`getSiftRiskScoreForLogin()`**

- This function returns the Sift risk score for a given login event, which is a value between 0 and 1. Higher the score, greater the risk.

> - In the case of an error, this function returns -1. An error can occur due to an invalid API key, network issues, or Sift server errors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If an error occurs due to an invalid API key, network issue or a Sift server issue, this function returns a value of -1.
```
